Storm chaos prompts virus surge
E-mails claiming to contain details of the storms that battered Europe contain a malicious virus, security firms warn.
The e-mails with the subject line "230 dead as storm batters Europe", can leave computers vulnerable to attack.
The messages were first detected as the storms, which have killed at least 28 people, continued to rage.
Variants of the Windows virus have circulated for several days, but  experts were surprised at how quickly the new modified virus appeared.
"The new virus only started spreading a few hours ago," said Mikko Hypponen, chief research officer at security firm F-Secure. "The spamming started when the storms were still raging."
Mr Hypponen believes the adaptation was designed to take advantage of the interest in the storms.
Security firms advise computer users not to open e-mail attachments unless they are expecting them and to keep security software up to date.
Slave network
Malicious coders often take advantage of celebrity names or large news events to spread viruses and worms.
in 2005, an e-mail scam offering regular news updates following Hurricane Katrina spread a virus that allowed hackers to take control of a computer user's files.
"Malware writers will use any newsworthy event to try and gain a few minutes of airtime and infect a few unprepared computer users," said a spokesperson for security firm McAfee.
How many people clicked on it? It could be thousands or tens of thousands
			





                
                     
                    
	Mikko Hypponen



                
                    
                        
                            
                        
                     
                    
    
	
        
        
		
			In pictures: European storms
The new virus, called Small.DAM, was spread through e-mails with a variety of subject lines  purporting to be news. Other variants included "British Muslims Genocide" and "U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza..."
The virus is a trojan - a program or message that look benign but contains malicious code - that is installed when a user opens the e-mail and clicks on an attachment. The attachment could be called Video.exe, Read More.exe, Full Clip.exe or Full Story.exe. It can only infect Windows PCs.
"When you click on the attachment it installs a backdoor on the infected PC giving full access to the virus writer to do anything they want," said Mr Hypponen.
"What they typically do is search your hard drive for credit card numbers and e-mail addresses because they can resell both of those."
Typically, said Mr Hypponen, the virus writers will then use the computer in a botnet -  network of slave machines used to support all kinds of cyber crimes such as sending spam  and phishing e-mails.
Users would not be aware that their computer was infected.
F-secure said it had seen "hundreds of thousands of e-mails sent" but did not know how many machines were infected.
"How many people clicked on it? It could be thousands or tens of thousands," said Mr Hypponen.
However, most firms treated the virus as a low security threat and have now issued security updates.
