How to avoid the phishing bug
Technology analyst Bill Thompson is getting used to e-mails which alert him to problems with his online accounts - and he knows to ignore them.
No reputable bank would ask for such details in an e-mail
			
			
		
		
	

	


	
Paypal supposedly want me to sort out my account with them.
Apparently their "Account Review Team" has spotted some unusual activity, and access to my account has been restricted until I go to their website to reactivate it.
They were very nice, though, and sent me an e-mail with the right link in it to save me the trouble of typing www.paypal.com into my browser.
All I have to do is follow the link, give them some personal information and confirm my account details, and I will be back in action.
Unfortunately, they messed up the e-mail so instead of appearing as a nicely formatted message, I got to see the raw HTML they were sending out. It made interesting reading.
Faking it
I was already suspicious because I do not actually have a PayPal account, so it was not very surprising to find that the link to PayPal in the message was really a link to another site, www.pcypal.com.
I did not bother going there, since I knew what I would find: a web page that looked rather like an official PayPal page, with a URL just similar enough to fool the inattentive user.
I would be asked for my login details and perhaps even for a credit card number, and all the information I handed over would be gathered up by some online low-life who would then scam my card and perhaps even use my PayPal account to buy stuff for themselves.
By and large, companies like eBay and PayPal do not send out e-mails asking for details, they wait for you to log in and then tell you there is a problem



			





                
                     
                    
	



                
            
        
	
	
    
    




	

The e-mail was a rather amateur phishing trip, just like those targeted at customers of eBay, Amazon.com and almost every UK bank.
They seem to be growing in frequency, perhaps because the fraudsters have found that they work, at least enough to make them worthwhile.
After all, if you send out a million e-mails and only 100 people give you their credit card details, you can probably make £100,000 before you are caught.
Phishing is the latest big thing in dodgy online activity.
The name comes from fishing for passwords or credit card details, spelt in the hacker style.
It seems to date from 1996 when hackers were stealing AOL account names and passwords from gullible new users, with a hacked account known as a "phish".
Now it has spread from stealing access to someone's e-mail to stealing their credit card details, PayPal balance or even the contents of their bank account.
Simple rules
There are some simple rules to avoid falling for this sort of scam. One is never to click on a link in an e-mail, even if it looks OK. It is safer to type it in yourself or to cut and paste it from the e-mail into your web browser.
This is really important because a recently discovered bug in Microsoft's Internet Explorer means that a scammer can make a fake website look real.
A link which claims to be take you to PayPal might point to a fake site, but thanks to this as-yet-unpatched bug it will still say www.paypal.com in the address bar.
You can also set your e-mail program so that it does not display HTML e-mail automatically, but shows you the HTML so you can check it out first.
If you cannot rely on technology to protect you, you can think carefully about whether the organisation you are dealing with would really be asking for this sort of information.
By and large, companies like eBay and PayPal do not send out e-mails asking for details, they wait for you to log in and then tell you there is a problem.
And banks do not ask for customer passwords in e-mails.
Switch off
Phishing e-mails, like spam advertising sugar water and dodgy get-rich-quick schemes, are getting more and more common and more and more irritating.
It is bad enough having to wade through 50 or 60 e-mails telling me that I am a physically, sexually and financially inadequate human being every morning, without having to wonder who is trying to steal my account details too.
I cannot help envying Steve Cisler, the 20-year net veteran who is taking a few months off to travel around the US finding out what life is like without access to the online world.
He will not have to cope with phishing, spam or any of  the other irritations of e-mail.
I wonder sometimes about joining him offline, but I fear that my entire social and professional life would collapse overnight.
I will just have to put up with the phishers.
